## 1) Create a downloadhook

First you need to create a downloadhook for the emulator, you do this by:

### 1.1)
Create a folder in the downloadhooks folder, like: `hooks\[emulatorfoldername]`

**Specifications:**
* **`emulatorfoldername`** has to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)

### 1.2)
Create a **INFO INI** file in the `emulatorfoldername` wich contains basic information about the emulator.

The name of the INI file is: **`info.ini`**

So, for example you have a emulator called `johndoe` it is `downloadhooks\johndoe\emulator_info.ini`

Ps. You can find templates over [here](https://github.com/PhoenixInteractiveNL/edc-masterhook/tree/master/downloadhooks/0_templates)

Contents of the INFO INI file:

    [INFO]
    InfoVersion	        = Version of the INI file layout.
    LastCheck           = Last check for this emulator on the official author website (if still available).
    CompleteFlag        = All versions and downloads completed till LastCheck date? (1=yes)

    [EMULATOR]
    Author              = Author(s) of the emulator.
    Contact             = E-mail adress of the Author.
    License             = The License of the Emulator (Freeware/Shareware/Open Source/GNU GPLvx).
    BiosNeeded          = Does the Emulator need BIOS ROM(S) to run? (1=yes)
    Website             = The Website where the emulator can be found (starting with http://)
    Notes               = Small description of the emulator.

Example Contents (Emulator Potator for Watara Supervision):

    [INFO]
    InfoVersion         = 1.0.0.0
    LastCheck           = 2016-11-15
    CompleteFlag        = 1

    [EMULATOR]
    Author              = David Raingeard
    Contact             = david*raingeard#laposte*net
    License             = Freeware
    BiosNeeded          = 0
    Website             = 
    Notes               = This appears to be the first Watara Supervision emulator for Windows. It uses the SDL library and has good compatibility.

Please note the e-mail adress is masked to prevent spamming (*=. | #=@)

### 1.3)
Create a **DOWNLOADS INI** file in the `emulatorfoldername` wich contains information about the emulator version(s).

The name of the INI file is: **`emulator_downloads.ini`**

So, for example you have a emulator called `johndoe` it is `downloadhooks\johndoe\emulator_downloads.ini`

Ps. You can find templates over [here](https://github.com/PhoenixInteractiveNL/edc-masterhook/tree/master/downloadhooks/0_templates)

DOWNLOADS INI file info:

**INI SECTION = VERSION**

**EMU** contents are EMULATOR relative.

**CFG** contents are ECC relative.

**INFO** contents are FILE relative, and are generated by the EDC manager (you may fill these yourself)

Contents of the DOWNLOADS INI file:

    [INFO]
    InfoVersion	                = Version of the INI file layout.

    [VERSION]
    FILE_ContentType            = Content type of the archive, can be: Program / Installer / Source / Extra.
    FILE_ContentCategory        = Category of the content type, can be: Emulator / Plugin / Drivers.
    FILE_Notes                  = Notes supporting the content of the archive (optional).
    EMU_Download                = The online location of the 7Z archive folder (with ending slash /).
    EMU_ReleaseDate             = The releasedate of the emulator (if you cannot find it, use the date of the executable file).
    EMU_Notes                   = Some small emulator notes (Working / Not working / Needs...).
    EMU_ExecutableFile          = Executable file to start the emulator .EXE or .COM, high exeption for .CMD and .BAT files.
    EMU_ExecutableFolder        = Relative path inside the archive where the executable file is located (with ending slash \).
    EMU_OS                      = Operating system, can be: Windows, DOS, Mac, Linux.
    EMU_OSVersion               = Version of the operating system, comma seperated. (example: XP,Vista,7,8,10).
    EMU_OSArchitecture          = Operating system architecture, can be: x86 (for win32) or x64 (for win64).
    INFO_PackedSize             = Autofilled by EDC manager in this GitHub repo. (Packed size of the archive contents).
    INFO_UnpackedSize           = Autofilled by EDC manager in this GitHub repo. (Unpacked size of the archive contents).
    INFO_CRC32Executable        = Autofilled by EDC manager in this GitHub repo. (CRC32 of the executable to start the emulator).
    INFO_CRC32Archive           = Autofilled by EDC manager in this GitHub repo. (CRC32 of the emulator archive).

**Specifications:**
* **`[VERSION]`** mostly exists of numbers, all letters have to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)
* This version number must exist in the emulator download folder on a EDC repository, or EDC manager cannot find it to fill the details!
* In emulators, always put the latest version on top and the oldest at the bottom!
* In versions, always put x64 versions top and x86 beneath x64.
* Content category can be left 'Emulator' for ContentType: Program / Installer / Source

Example Contents (Emulator Potator for Watara Supervision):

    [0.7]
    FILE_ContentType            = Program
    FILE_Notes                  = Emulator
    FILE_Notes                  = 
    EMU_DownloadUrl             = https://github.com/PhoenixInteractiveNL/edc-repo0001/raw/master/potator/
    EMU_ReleaseDate             = 2004-10-19
    EMU_Notes                   = Has a commandline parameter to start roms.
    EMU_ExecutableFile          = Potator.exe
    EMU_ExecutableFolder        =
    EMU_OS                      = Windows
    EMU_OSVersion               = XP,Vista,7,8,10
    EMU_OSArchitecture          = x86
    INFO_PackedSize             = 179 
    INFO_UnpackedSize           = 192 
    INFO_CRC32Executable        = 6C059FFB 
    INFO_CRC32Archive           = A8E52604

**MISC**

Please note that if you have 2 the same versions (and archive files) but diffrent architecture like x86 or x64, you have to make 2 sections, example snippets:

    [0.1-win32]
    EMU_OS                      = Windows
    EMU_OSVersion               = XP,Vista,7,8,10
    EMU_OSArchitecture          = x86

    [0.1-win64]
    EMU_OS                      = Windows
    EMU_OSVersion               = Vista,7,8,10
    EMU_OSArchitecture          = x64

Other files for source, extras or platforms should be named like:

[version]-linux
[version]-mac
[version]-source
[version]-drivers
[version]-extras or extras-[description]
[version]-plugin or plugin-[description]

### 1.4)
Create a **ECC CONFIGURATION INI** file in the `emulatorfoldername` wich contains ecc configuration(s) about the emulator version(s).

The name of the INI file is: **`configs_frontend_ecc.ini`**

So, for example you have a emulator called `johndoe` it is `downloadhooks\johndoe\configs_frontend_ecc.ini`

Ps. You can find templates over [here](https://github.com/PhoenixInteractiveNL/edc-masterhook/tree/master/downloadhooks/0_templates)

Contents of the ECC CONFIGURATION INI file:

    [INFO]
    InfoVersion	                = Version of the INI file layout.

    [GLOBAL]
    CFG_ECCParameter            = ECC parameter line.
    CFG_escape                  = Does the emulator needs the path in escapes? "" (default 1)
    CFG_win8char                = Does the emulator need old 8.3 dosnames to work? (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)
    CFG_useCueFile              = Does the emulator needs a CUE file (possible in combination with script) to run? (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)
    CFG_filenameOnly            = Does the emulator only needs the filename to run? (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)
    CFG_noExtension             = Does the emulator only needs the filename to run without extension? (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)
    CFG_executeInEmuFolder      = Does the emulator needs to be executed from withing the emulator folder? (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)
    CFG_enableEccScript         = Does the emulator need a ECC script to start and run a ROM? (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)
    CFG_enableZipUnpackActive   = Does the ROM archive need to be extracted first? (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)
    CFG_enableZipUnpackSkip     = Skip already unpacked files (faster). (1 for yes, otherwise leave blank)

    [VERSION] (optional)

[GLOBAL] sets the settings for all versions of this emulator, any specific configuration for a version can be placed in a new INI header [].

Example Contents (Emulator Potator for Watara Supervision):

    [GLOBAL]
    CFG_ECCParameter            = %ROM%
    CFG_escape                  = 1
    CFG_win8char                =
    CFG_useCueFile              =
    CFG_filenameOnly            =
    CFG_noExtension             =
    CFG_executeInEmuFolder      =
    CFG_enableEccScript         = 
    CFG_enableZipUnpackActive   =
    CFG_enableZipUnpackSkip     =

### 1.5)
Create a **SCREENSHOT** file in the `emulatorfoldername` wich is a screenshot taken from the emulator.

The file has to be JPG, and the name of the JPG file is: **`screen.jpg`**

**Specifications:**
* **`[emulatorfoldername]_screen.jpg`** has to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)

* This file **MUST** exists!, if there is no screenshot avaiable then use the one in the [**template**](https://github.com/PhoenixInteractiveNL/edc-masterhook/tree/master/downloadhooks/0_templates) folder.

### 1.6) OPTIONAL
Create a **LOGO** file in the `emulatorfoldername` wich contains the logo of the emulator.

The file has to be PNG or JPG, and the name of the file is: **`logo.png/logo.jpg`**

**Specifications:**
* **`logo.png/logo.jpg`** has to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)

* The PNG must not have a alpha channe for transparancy, convert all to white solid background!

***
## 2) Create a downloadfolder

Create a folder in the download repository (edc-repo00??) with the same name you've used to create the `downloadhook`.

### 2.1)
The archive has to be a 7Z (7ZIP) file, place it in the folder as: **`[version].7z`**

**Specifications:**
* **`[version].7z`** mostly exists of numbers, all letters have to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)

Q: Why 7Zip?

_A: Because 7Z has better compression then ZIP, RAR, ARJ, etc..._

### 2.2)
Create a changelog TXT for this version, place it in the folder as: **`[version]_changelog.txt`**

You may need to search for it on the emulator website, or any readme document in the archive...

Note that if there are more builds of the same version, then just copy the changelog, example:

1.0-win32_changelog.txt
1.0-win64_changelog.txt (same contents as above)

**Specifications:**
* **`[version]_changelog.txt`** all letters have to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)
* The file must exist, if the changelog is unknown...the contents is only the word: `unknown`

### 2.3)
Create a contents TXT for this version, place it in the folder as: **`[version]_contents.txt`**

This file contains the listing of files in the archive.

Please note that the `[version]_contents.txt` is autogenerated by EDC manager in the EDC-00?? repositories on this GitHub repo!

**Specifications:**
* **`[version]_contents.txt`** all letters have to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)

So there are 3 files in the folder:

    [version].7z
    [version]_changelog.txt
    [version]_contents.txt

***
## 3) Add the emulator to the list

Last but not least, add the emulator to the platform list in the file: **`eccidlist.ini`** wich is located in the emuDownloadcenter root.

**INI SECTION = ECCID**

Format: **`FOLDER=EMULATORNAME`**

Please note the **same** emulator can be added to multiple platforms.

**Specifications:**
* **`FOLDER`** has to be lowercase, no spaces or non-ascii characters (may only contain a 'minus' -)
* **`EMULATORNAME`** can have capital letters, may have spaces or special characters.

***
## 4) Excluding some emulators

Emulators to exclude from EDC at the moment:

- Emulators that are **Java** based (JAR).